now US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin says Hamas has proposed changes
to a us-backed ceasefire deal with
Israel he said while that while some of
the demands were workable others were
not wrapping up his Middle East Tour
blinkin insisted that a deal to end the
war in Gaza was still possible and
meanwhile lebanon's iran-backed
Hezbollah militia has fired a huge
barrage of rockets into Northern Israel
there were no immediate reports of
casualties the group says it was in
response to the killing of a senior
commander in an Israeli air
strike the funeral of the most senior
Hezbollah figure killed since October
Talib Sami Abdullah was known within
hasbalah as Haj Abu Talib and perhaps
the clearest indication of his status on
the battlefield during the funeral
procession in Beirut a vow to
retaliate this will be our response to
the martyrdom of Abu Talib
we will increase our operations in
intensity Force quantity and quality
wait and see on the
battlefield Israel says the strike on a
Hezbollah command and control center
took out Abu Talib in response hasbalah
launched one of its heaviest rocket
attacks on Northern Israel adid already
escalating clashes across the Lebanon
Israel
border since October strikes have killed
25 people on the Israeli side including
civilians and over 400 people in Lebanon
including more than 70
civilians the latest casualty a public
utility worker in the Lebanese town of
nakura killed in an Israeli drone
strike was one of the guys who was
persistent and
patient he was a good person
he didn't want to leave the
town the US is calling for
deescalation while US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin said a Gaza deal would
also help lower Israel Lebanon
tensions now there's no doubt in my mind
that the the best way also to empower a
diplomatic solution to the North Lebanon
is a resolution of the conflict in Gaza
getting the ceasefire
that will take a tremendous amount of of
pressure out of the system hostilities
have forced more than 150,000 people on
both sides of the border to flee their
homes a resolution Lincoln says needs to
also ensure their safe return
home let's get across to our
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
from war Tanya Hezbollah has vowed to
intensify its attacks along the Lebanon
Israel border what kind of respon
response white might we see from
Israel well we could see more intense
crossborder attacks we've been seeing
this in recent weeks and as you just
said Hezbollah has threatened after the
killing of this high ranking Commander
that it will intensify or widen its
attacks and what is very worrying here
in Israel is that those attacks from
Hezbollah are going deeper inside the
country like on Wednesday we've heard
air rate Sirens going
off in Tiberia which is on the Sea of
Galilee and other places and this has
been uh you know going on this gradual
in
intensification uh of uh uh cross border
strikes and also of course Israel
retaliating deeper inside Lebanon now
what could that mean I mean either we
will be seeing a diplomatic uh uh
solution that is being worked on also
for months already but uh it's very
openly discussed here that once uh the
offensive uh and the war in Gaza is
coming to an end we could see an
escalation on the northern border there
could be actually uh an offensive uh in
Lebanon uh from Israel and that is
because it's in the report as well we've
seen that that you know tens of
thousands of Israelis have been
displaced since October 7 uh when those
crossb attacks started and Israel has to
change this reality in some ways when
you go up north Border Town towns and
bigger towns even like Kon they are
ghost towns people have left them and
this is of course something that Israel
cannot accept in the long term so Tanya
looking just briefly at that Gaza
ceasefire deal uh that Lincoln has said
um the US is supporting that it would
also help lower Israel Lebanon
attentions do we know how close Israel
and Hamas are to actually accepting the
plan well I think nobody can answer that
question right now and this uh ceasefire
deal that would also see the release of
hostages is really hanging in the
balance and we've heard from US
Secretary of State blinkin he said uh
that changes were made now the official
response by Hamas so we have to wait and
see uh how both sides will be you know
coming together on that or not this is
pretty much unclear how both sides will
be moving forward Tanya thank you for
that update that's our correspondent
Tanya Kramer